A new use of Agrobacterium plant growth regulator genes for plant bioengineering

Abstract
Delivery of therapeutic molecules into the plant’s vascular tissues is a massive barrier to developing sustainable management strategies for plant diseases caused by insect-vector borne vascular plant pathogens. By adding Agrobacterium plant growth regulator genes to a binary plant transformation vector also encoding a gene of interest, we engineered plant tissues capable of autonomous cell division and vascularization while expressing biomolecules on the stems of host plants and in vitro plant cell tissue culture cured of Agrobacterium. We refer to these repurposed Agrobacterium galls as symbionts to reflect their intended beneficial interaction with the host plant. A small molecule dye freely moves into the host vasculature from the symbiont; however, visualization of cytoplasmic fluorescent proteins and patterns of post-transcriptional gene silencing suggest that further optimization of symbiont physiology may enhance product export. In a proof-of-concept assay in potato, symbiont expression of an antimicrobial peptide was sufficient to restrict systemic movement of Candidatus Liberibacter solanacearum, the bacterium associated with zebra chip disease. Benefits of the approach include applicability to a large and diverse range of plant species and in vitro culturing for plant-based protein production. Scale up to perennial tree crops remains a challenge and the current frontier of research. The pSym plasmids faciliate development of the symbiont structures on plants or in tissue culture in vitro.

Construction of the pSym plasmid and derivative vectors
The pSym plasmid was made by PCR-amplifying the PGR cassette from A. tumefaciens strain C58 and ligating into pUSHRL-26 (32) at the AscI site immediately upstream of the double 35S promoter. An annotated, sequenced-confirmed map of pSym is available on GenBank (PQ563460). We built several versions of pSym for expression of the fluorescent marker proteins GFP and mCherry with leader secretion signal peptides (SP), and/or mobile plant protein domains (e.g. flowering locus T-like protein 3 from Citrus clementina (FT3) in an attempt to direct movement of the protein of interest throughout the plant.  Plasmid pSym-FT-mCherry was used for some experiments.  Another variant, pSym-CsGAOX-mCherry-3xHA, co-expressing the citrus homolog of GA2oxidase 8 and mCherry was also used. A vector expressing an the antimicrobial peptide Blp-Sm, pSym-GFP-BlpSm, was constructed by fusing the Blp-Sm coding sequence to the C-terminus of GFP under the 35S promoter, with a P2A ribosomal skipping site. 

A smaller symbiont-forming vector was constructed by inserting the PGR cassette from pSym into the pJL-TRBO backbone and placing the small molecule reporter RUBY (37) under the 35S promoter (pMin2-Ruby).  To silence YFP expressed in host plant cells, a hairpin RNA complementary to the YFP sequence was inserted into pMin2 under the 35S promoter and the mCherry sequence was added under the NOS promoter to make pMin2_hpYFP_mCherry.  Annotated sequences for these vectors are included in this repository.
